# Landsat-9-Image-Classification

Landsat 9 Image Classification was conducted over a portion of the City of Lancaster and it's adjacent municipalities. Landsat data and Image Classification techinques were used to extrapolate four main land uses: water bodies, agriculture, forested, and built up areas. 


Landsat 8-9 OLI/TIRS C2 L1 imagery (LC09_L1TP_015032_20240716_20240717_02_T1) was downloaded for processing. IR Bands 1-7 were clipped to the area of interest and converted to reflectants using the packaged MTL file. 

Semi-Automatic Classification Plugin (SCP) was used to layer IR bands (e.g. 4-3-2 is natural color image) in order to highlight features like water bodies, healthy vegetation, etc. For each of water bodies, agriculture, and forested areas, 5 samples were chosen varying in their size and clarity. For built up areas, five samples were taken of suburban neighborhoods (dendritic street grid, mixed vegetation) and five samples were taken of urban areas with the aid of the Future Land Use and Transportation Map of the Lancaster County Comprehensive Plan (Places2040) and the Google Map satellite imagery to confirm land use intensity. Classification was done with Z-score input normalization using the Minimum Distance Algorithm. After classification we converted the map to HTML using qgis2web. All processing was done in QGIS.

Lancaster County has avoided sprawling development patterns because agricultural/farmland preservation has made it so that many acres of land are forbidden for development, more acres than any other county in the United States. Sprawl can be visualized radiating from Lancaster City into surrounding municipalities primarily along the transportation "spokes" or roads, many of which are state routes. Suburban development can distinguished from urban development. Urban development features little to no mixing of built up areas (magenta) with forested (dark green) or agriculture areas (light green) while surburban development seems as though little forests (dark green) are interspersed with built up areas (magenta). Farmland typically appears as a magenta dot (the farmhouse) surrounded by patches of agricultural (light green) and forested (dark green) areas. There appears to be more forested area in the classification map than in reality. That's probably because the selection of the forested areas overlaps with the selection of healthy vegetation, so false positive for forests are most likely fields for growing produce.
